This is the Temple's mouth. It's a busy business trip,
which use both small and large cargo ships.
It combines London docks and the Channel Channel.
Above it is the approach zone for part of the London air traffic.
But over there, two miles from the bank right in the middle of the mouth,
is a thousand and four hundred tons of unexploded bombs.
In 1944, SS Richard Montgomery was carrying ammunition for the US Air Force.
Here she docked for the night.
And then the combination of bad weather and bad decisions caused,
she was stuck in the sandy shallow waters.
The weight of the ship ripped it in half
and so it is still there.
The stream around it is a small crater.
Part of the cargo has been removed, but that is not enough.
If it gets worse, it would be one of the biggest non-nuclear explosions in history.
And that's what I mean. For comparison: Russia has tried something,
what is called the Bomb Father?
Its explosion is equivalent to 40 TNTs.
This ship would explode with thirty-fold strength.
Of course, it's around a banned entrance zone,
indicated in the maps and recorded at the office.
Occasionally, a jerk decides to go to her and take a shot there.
But hand to heart if the blast did not cause years of storms and soil movements,
so one photo probably will not hurt.
So what's the risk? Well, no one is completely sure. That is the problem.
No one knows what the state of the ship is.
And there is no study that would answer the question of what the seas will do with bombs in half a century.
They should be fine. They are in clean, cold water.
And although TNT itself does not disintegrate in time,
its detonators yes. That would be completely safe,
if there were not two and a half thousand cluster bombs on it,
which could fall on it.
This could unexpectedly explode,
even if they are not triggered.
Maybe. Depending on who you believe.
Should we have something to do against it?
The Coast Guard, together with the wreck manager,
a beautifully named function of the British Government,
report to the public on the condition of the ship,
based on laser scanning and occasional dives to the ship.
The overall view is that it is safe,
but gradually the ship decomposes, because the flow of water and time take their toll.
It is probably best not to do anything. Because trying to remove it
all the dangerous material could
to be a much bigger part of life.
And it would be very expensive. But even if the explosion occurred,
water would probably absorb most of the energy. But no one is sure.
Of course, there are many voices,
mostly from people living near the ship,
who say the risk is too big to stay here.
The worst possibility is that a sudden wave
heading for the wrong place in the wrong time will hit the ship
and the equivalent of a small atomic bomb will explode. The cities around it would be aligned with the ground
together with a nearby liquefied gas stock.
First, a pressure wave and then a direct wave of explosion energy.
But this ship is not only interesting due to its cargo.
It's interesting because of its inscrutability.
There are many such risky objects around the world.
But we can usually tell how dangerous they are.
We can determine the degree of risk, perhaps one in a million.
But this risk can not be quantified.
We can not say anything but:
"Yeah, that'll be fine."
Doing nothing is probably the right thing to do.
And that's the only thing our government will do.
But we do not know for sure if this is the right thing.
The only way to find out is simply to wait.
And maybe get a good insurance.
"Small, far! Small, far!"
"Tet of Father Ted, check it out."
Translation: minihry36